Introduction:
Welcome to Stock Management System using Java! A stock management system is a software application that helps businesses manage their inventory of 
goods. It allows businesses to track the flow of goods from supplier to warehouse to customer and provides real-time information on the quantity 
and availability of products. The system is designed to help businesses maintain optimal stock levels, reduce waste and stockouts, and improve 
efficiency. It makes the tasks of adding and removing of stocks in inventory simple. Stock manager can handle all these tasks on his fingertips. 
Overall, a stock management system is an essential tool for businesses of all sizes that need to manage their inventory effectively and efficiently. 
It can help businesses reduce costs, improve customer service, and increase profitability by optimizing their supply chain and inventory management 
processes.

 

Explanation:
The Stock Management System we will build will be a simple console-based application that allows users to add, remove and view all the available 
stocks and their amount. We have used inbuilt classes ArrayList and Scanner. ArrayList is for storing the stocks while Scanner class is for taking 
the output from user through keyboard. Our program consists of two classes named as StockManagementSystem and Stock. Stock class has all the getters 
and setters for stock name, quantity, and price. It also has method for removing stock with condition of quantity to remove is less than available 
quantity. Stock management system class has main method. It has switch case inside do while loop. There are four options will appear as – Add stock, 
Remove stock, View stock and Exit. For adding stock user need to give stock name, quantity, and price. ‘Add’ function of ArrayList has been used to 
add stocks in record. Removal of stock is taken place by its name. If stock is available in record then it will be removed on the given quantity 
provided by user. We have simply called the method to remove which we have coded in Stock class.  For displaying stocks for each loop has been used 
which will print stock name with it’s quantity and price. Breaking the loop will make user exits from the system. Basic OOPS concepts are making this
system easy to code and understand.